===HPLC case - BB523: Farmaceutisk toksikologi A===

Welcome to Labster's HPLC case!


You have the opportunity to use Labster's HPLC case and prepare yourself before the exam. You can access this website and the case anytime you want until the examination day. 


Please read the instructions on how to use the case below.


Good luck!


===How to use the case===
* '''Install Unity 3D player'''

You will need to install Unity 3D player in order to be able to use the case. When you go to the case website, it will automatically prompt you to install Unity 3D player if you do not have one installed yet. Just follow the instructions, it takes about 1 minute to install Unity 3D player on your computer. Once installed, you will be able to load the case. Otherwise click on the reload button to reload the website again. 


* '''Disable pop-up blocker'''

If you have a pop-up blocker activated, please disable it. When you click on the view theory button or when you need to download the data, a new window will pop up. If you have a pop-up blocker activated, the new window will not be able to pop-up. 


* '''Use a computer'''
Currently the HPLC case cannot be used in iPad, please use a computer to run this case.


* '''Questionnaire and feedback survey'''

You will be asked to answer a set of 10 questions that will be used to analyze your learning after completing the case. 

You need to answer these questions before starting the case (pre-test) and after completing the case (post-test). Please spend around 10-15 minutes to answer these questions, if you do not know the answer, please make an educated guess. This questionnaire is anonymous and does not contribute to your grade in this course.
 
We would like you to fill in a feedback survey after completing the case to share your experience with us. Your feedback is very valuable for us to make the case even better in the future. This survey is anonymous.



===Wiki theory page===
You can always read the related theory that are compiled in wiki pages. You can access them by clicking the "View Theory" button on the case or by [http://learn.labster.com/index.php/HPLC Click here].


===Start HPLC case===
* You will first need to complete the pre-test before starting the HPLC case

[https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/HPLC_PreTest Click here] to start the pre-test '''it is very important for you complete the pre-test before starting the case!'''
* After completing the pre-test you will be directed to the Labster dashboard, create a user name and password and click "Register"
* Once in the dashboard, simply click "Play" to start the HPLC case
* After completing the case, remember to go back to the Dashboard and complete the post-test link '''it is very important that you also complete the post-test after the case'''


It is very important that you answer the post-test because we need to quantify your learning based on the case, and of course your feedback is very much appreciated for us to further develop the case.



===Contact me===
If you have any questions, feedback, comments or anything, please don't hesitate to contact me.


Tamara Tjitrowirjo

[mailto:tamara@labster.com tamara@labster.com]

+45 61 43 72 44

[http://www.labster.com www.labster.com]