==Introduction==

Labster developed this CSI case in collaboration with Danmark Tekniske Universitet (DTU). The user of this case are entry level undergraduate students studying biotechnology with most of them having some biotechnology background knowledge. 

In the CSI case, students need to utilize their scientific knowledge in DNA profiling in order to run PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) and gel electrophoresis and solve the case. By using Labster, students learn how to work in a laboratory environment as well as learning how science can be applied in real life situation. 

Students start by reading the background theory and then continuing to the virtual laboratory. They are also presented with quiz questions throughout the laboratory. If they do not know the answer, students can always click on the "view theory" button and go back to the Wiki page discussing the related theory. The case ends once students have completed the laboratory exercises, answered all the quiz questions and convict the murderer.

==Guiding materials for you== 

We have specially prepared some tools for you to be able to go through our CSI case even if you do not have any biotechnology background. We suggest you to go through the case in similar way to the students. However we have extra materials for you if you get stuck.

'''1. Read the theory in the Wiki pages'''

You are most welcome to read through the whole theory. This will provide you with sufficient knowledge to complete the case. Click on the link below to view the theory ... 
You also have the option to go directly into the lab. We will provide you with detailed instructions and a video walk through of the CSI case should you cannot proceed by yourself.

2. Get started with Labster

Labster is ran through Unity3D. If you do not have Unity3D player installed in your computer, you will need to install one. An option to install Unity3D is presented on the main page of the CSI case. 
You will need to allow your web browser for pop-ups in order to link the "view theory" button to the correct page in the Wiki.
You need to create a username as a password to log into the CSI case.
 
3. Should you get stuck at any step in the case, don't worry! We have prepared a detailed instruction including the correct answers for all the quiz questions and a walk through video clip that you can find below. 
We want everyone to be able to enjoy our CSI case!

==The crime scene== 
Video (time: 1.10 to 1.45)

1. Click on the detective if you would like to ask some questions.

2. Now you need to pick the blood on the floor left by the murderer. Click on the blood splatter by the door to collect a sample. You will now have a test tube containing the murderer's blood.

3. Place the test tube containing the murderer's blood into the inventory box located underneath the "Lab" and "Crime scene" tab.

4. You are now ready to leave the crime scene and proceed into the laboratory. Click on the "Lab" tab.

==Laboratory - Introduction==
Video (time 1.46 to 2.04)

1. Quiz: ''Before a blood sample could be used for PCR:'' Answer (C). Notice that the test tube containing the murderer's blood changes color from red to white.

2. Proceed to work bench 1 where you can prepare the PCR reaction.

==Laboratory - Mixing PCR reagents==
Video (time 2.05 to 3.44)

1. Click on the PCR kit, 3 bottles will come out with their lids opened. The blue labelled bottle contains nucleotides, the green labelled bottle contains primers and the yellow labelled bottle contains polymerase. Together with the isolated DNA, these 3 reagents are the ingredients that you need to run a PCR reaction.

2. Click on the green bag inside the PCR kit to take 1 PCR tube. You can place the PCR tube on the tube rack (the tube rack is flashing blue).

3. Click on the test tube containing murderer's isolated DNA and place it on the test tube rack (the test tube rack is flashing blue).

4. You will need a pipette to prepare the PCR reaction. Click on the pipette and click on the pipette tip box to take a clean tip. You always need a clean pipette tip before mixing any reagents.

5. Now click on the blue labelled bottle to collect nucleotides and place it on the PCR tube by clicking the PCR tube.

6. Quiz: ''A nucleotide is a substrate for...'' Answer (A).

7. You will need to throw away the used pipette tip. Do so by clicking on the trash bin (a white circular object in front of the PCR machine).

8. Quiz: ''It is important to change the pipette tip to...'' Answer (C).

9. Take a clean pipette tip and collect nucleotides from the green labelled bottle. Place the primers in the PCR tube, answer the quiz question and then throw away the pipette tip.

10. Quiz: ''The function of primers in a PCR reaction is to...'' Answer (B).

11. Take a clean pipette tip and collect polymerase from the yellow labelled bottle. Place the polymerase in the PCR tube, answer the quiz question and then throw away the pipette tip.

12. Quiz: ''A DNA polymerase...'' Answer (D).

13. Take a clean pipette tip and collect the murderer's isolated DNA from the tube rack. Place the isolated DNA in the PCR tube, answer the quiz question, throw away the pipette tip and return the pipette back to the stand.

14. Quiz: ''What is the template of a PCR reaction?'' Answer (D).

15. Click on the PCR tube and click on the PCR machine. The screen will zoom in to the PCR machine. Click the "open" button and place the tube on the machine (it is flashing blue). Click the "close" button and then click the "start" button.

==Animation - PCR reaction==
Video (time 3.45 to 5.41)

==Animation - PCR reaction quiz==
Video (time 5.42 to 6.55)

1. Quiz: ''At this step in the PCR process, the DNA was...?'' Answer (B).

2. Quiz: ''The separation was caused by the...'' Answer (C).

3. Quiz: ''This step in a PCR reaction is called the _____ step.'' Answer (A).

4. Quiz: ''The primers are position at the _____ of the PCR product.'' Answer (D).

5. Quiz: ''The PCR product get a certain length due to...'' Answer (C).

6. Quiz: ''At this point the DNA polymerase has...'' Answer (A).

7. Quiz: ''The DNA polymerase extends the primers into a new DNA strand by _____'' Answer (C).

==Laboratory - Post PCR reaction==
Video (time 6.56 to 7.46)

1. Quiz: ''The complementary sequence to the template sequence is:'' Answer (C).

2. Quiz: ''You have now copied (amplified) regions in the DNA of...'' Answer (A).

3. Quiz: ''Adding more PCR products to the DNA profile will _____ probability of a 100% match between two individuals.'' Answer (D).

4. Quiz: ''The purpose of increasing the temperature to 95 degrees celcius in PCR is to...'' Answer (D).

5. Quiz: ''At the 54 degrees celcius step the primers _____ the DNA.'' Answer (C).

6. Quiz: ''When the temperature is raised to 72 degrees celcius in the PCR reaction, the _____.'' Answer (A).

7. Click the "open" button, take the PCR tube out by clicking on it and then click the "back" button. 

8. Place the PCR tube in the tube rack (the tube rack is flashing blue). Notice that there are 4 additional PCR tubes on your rack. PCR product from the PhD student, PCR product from the rivaling scientist, PCR product from the Post-doc and DNA ladder.

==Laboratory - Preparing gel electrophoresis==
Video (time 7.47 to 9.05)

1. Use the pipette to transfer the PCR product from the PCR tube into the gel electrophoresis machine. By placing your cursor on the PCR tubes, you can read what the content is. Click on the pipette and click on the pipette tip box to take a clean tip. You always need a clean pipette tip before mixing any reagents. 

2. Click on PCR tube 1 containing PCR product from the PhD student, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, the screen will zoom into the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 1, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

3. Click on PCR tube 2 containing PCR product from the rivaling scientist, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 2, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

4. Click on PCR tube 3 containing PCR product from the Post-doc, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 3, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

5. Click on PCR tube 4 containing DNA ladder, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 4, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

6. Click on PCR tube 5 containing PCR product from the murderer, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 5, click on the "back" button, throw away the pipette tip and return the pipette back to the stand. By placing your cursor on the squares, you can read what content is placed there.

7. Click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click the "start" button.

==Animation - Gel electrophoresis==
Video (time 9.06 to 10.14)

==Animation - Gel electrophoresis quiz==
Video (time 10.15 to 10.42)

1. Quiz: ''We can see bands on the E-gel because there is _____ DNA.'' Answer (B).

2. Quiz: ''The DNA is _____ charged.'' Answer (D).

3. Quiz: ''Due to the negative charge of the DNA the DNA will move towards the _____ of the E-gel in an electric field.'' Answer (A).

4. You will now compare the DNA profile from the 3 suspects (PhD student, rivaling scientist and Post-doc) to the DNA profile from the murderer. And then you can click on the lab assistant.

5. Lab assistant: ''So who is the murderer then?'' Answer (B).

==Animation - Murderer conviction==
Video (time 10.43 to 11.05)

==Laboratory - Judge quiz==
Video (time 11.06 to 12.43)

1. Quiz: ''_____ are the building blocks of new copies of _____.'' Answer (C).

2. Quiz: ''What is the function of primers in a PCR reaction?'' Answer (B).

3. Quiz: ''What would happen if no polymerase was added to the PCR reaction, new DNA would _____.'' Answer (C).

4. Quiz: ''Which reagent acts as a template for the DNA polymerase, so it knows which new DNA to make?'' Answer (A).

5. Quiz: ''DNA polymerase binds to the template DNA, and synthesizes new DNA in a _____ direction.'' Answer (C).

6. Quiz: ''It is the ability to _____ that makes the Tag-polymerase special compared to most other polymerases.'' Answer (B).

7. Quiz: ''Contamination of reagents often leads to...'' Answer (A).

8. Quiz: ''How many sets of primers are needed for DNA profiling?'' Answer (D).

9. Quiz: ''The purpose of PCR is...'' Answer (D).

10. Quiz: ''A PCR cycle repeated 30 times to _____.'' Answer (D).

11. Quiz: ''What can a DNA ladder help determine?'' Answer (C).

12. Quiz: ''Is it possible to distinguish individuals by running these PCR products on a gel because the PCR products _____.'' Answer (B).

13. Great job! Now you have completed the CSI case.