==Can't find the solution in this guide?==
If you don't find help in the below guide, always feel free to email or call Tobias at tobias@labster.com or phone +45 51 88 85 25.
==Preparation: Installing Unity & Creating login==
===Installing Unity===
If you do not have Unity3D player installed in your computer, dont worry - an option to install Unity3D is presented on the main page of the CSI case. Please click the logo to download the application and install it after download.
===Creating login===
The first time you use the lab, you will have to create a login. Follow the steps and when asked for "University" and "Field of study" please enter the corresponding criteria.

==Video Walkthrough (PASSWORD: walkthrough)==
{{#ev:vimeo|53148339|700}}

==Text Walkthrough with video timestamps==
===The crime scene===
Video (time: 1.10 to 1.45)

1. Click on the detective if you would like to ask some questions.

2. Now you need to pick the blood on the floor left by the murderer. Click on the blood splatter by the door to collect a sample. You will now have a test tube containing the murderer's blood.

3. Place the test tube containing the murderer's blood into the inventory box located underneath the "Lab" and "Crime scene" tabs.

4. You are now ready to leave the crime scene and proceed into the laboratory. Click on the "Lab" tab.

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Laboratory - Introduction===
Video (time 1.46 to 2.04)

1. Quiz: ''Before a blood sample could be used for PCR:'' Answer (C). Notice that the test tube containing the murderer's blood changes color from red to white.

2. Proceed to work bench 1 where you can prepare the PCR reaction.

3. You can always zoom out to a wider view by clicking on "back" in the upper right-hand corner of the lab. 

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Laboratory - Mixing PCR reagents===
Video (time 2.05 to 3.44)

1. Click on the PCR kit, and 3 bottles will come out with their lids opened. The blue bottle contains nucleotides, the green bottle contains primers and the yellow bottle contains polymerase. Together with the isolated DNA, these 3 reagents are the ingredients that you need to run a PCR reaction.

2. Click on the green bag inside the PCR kit to take 1 PCR tube. You can place the PCR tube on the tube rack (the tube rack is flashing blue).

3. Click on the test tube containing murderer's isolated DNA and place it on the test tube rack (the test tube rack is flashing blue).

4. You will need a pipette to transfer reagents from one bottle to another tube. Click on the pipette and click on the pipette tip box to take a clean tip. You always need a clean pipette tip before mixing any reagents.

5. Now click on the blue bottle to collect nucleotides and place them in the PCR tube by clicking the PCR tube.

6. Quiz: ''A nucleotide is a substrate for...'' Answer (A).

7. You will need to throw away the used pipette tip. Do so by clicking on the trash bin (a white circular object in front of the PCR machine).

8. Quiz: ''It is important to change the pipette tip to...'' Answer (C).

9. Take a clean pipette tip and collect primers from the green bottle. Place the primers in the PCR tube, answer the quiz question and then throw away the pipette tip.

10. Quiz: ''The function of primers in a PCR reaction is to...'' Answer (B).

11. Take a clean pipette tip and collect polymerase from the yellow bottle. Place the polymerase in the PCR tube, answer the quiz question and then throw away the pipette tip.

12. Quiz: ''A DNA polymerase...'' Answer (D).

13. Take a clean pipette tip and collect the murderer's isolated DNA from the tube rack. Place the isolated DNA in the PCR tube, answer the quiz question, throw away the pipette tip and return the pipette back to the stand.

14. Quiz: ''What is the template of a PCR reaction?'' Answer (D).

15. Click on the PCR tube and then click on the PCR machine. The screen will zoom in to the PCR machine. Click the "open" button and place the tube on the machine (it is flashing blue). Click the "close" button and then click the "start" button.

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Animation - PCR reaction===
Video (time 3.45 to 5.41)

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Animation - PCR reaction quiz===
Video (time 5.42 to 6.55)

1. Quiz: ''At this step in the PCR process, the DNA was...?'' Answer (B).

2. Quiz: ''The separation was caused by the...'' Answer (C).

3. Quiz: ''This step in a PCR reaction is called the _____ step.'' Answer (A).

4. Quiz: ''The primers are position at the _____ of the PCR product.'' Answer (D).

5. Quiz: ''The PCR product get a certain length due to...'' Answer (C).

6. Quiz: ''At this point the DNA polymerase has...'' Answer (A).

7. Quiz: ''The DNA polymerase extends the primers into a new DNA strand by _____'' Answer (C).

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Laboratory - Post PCR reaction===
Video (time 6.56 to 7.46)

1. Quiz: ''The complementary sequence to the template sequence is:'' Answer (C).

2. Quiz: ''You have now copied (amplified) regions in the DNA of...'' Answer (A).

3. Quiz: ''Adding more PCR products to the DNA profile will _____ probability of a 100% match between two individuals.'' Answer (D).

4. Quiz: ''The purpose of increasing the temperature to 95 degrees celcius in PCR is to...'' Answer (D).

5. Quiz: ''At the 54 degrees celcius step the primers _____ the DNA.'' Answer (C).

6. Quiz: ''When the temperature is raised to 72 degrees celcius in the PCR reaction, the _____.'' Answer (A).

7. Click the "open" button, take the PCR tube out by clicking on it and then click the "back" button. 

8. Place the PCR tube in the tube rack (the tube rack is flashing blue). Notice that there are 4 additional PCR tubes on your rack: PCR product from the PhD student, PCR product from the rival scientist, PCR product from the Post-doc and DNA ladder.

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Laboratory - Preparing gel electrophoresis===
Video (time 7.47 to 9.05)

1. Use the pipette to transfer the PCR product from the PCR tube into the gel electrophoresis machine. By scrolling your cursor over the PCR tubes, you can read what the content is. Click on the pipette and click on the pipette tip box to take a clean tip. You always need a clean pipette tip before mixing any reagents. 

2. Click on PCR tube 1 containing PCR product from the PhD student, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, the screen will zoom into the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 1, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

3. Click on PCR tube 2 containing PCR product from the rivaling scientist, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 2, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

4. Click on PCR tube 3 containing PCR product from the Post-doc, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 3, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

5. Click on PCR tube 4 containing DNA ladder, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 4, click on the "back" button, and then throw away the used pipette tip.

6. Click on PCR tube 5 containing PCR product from the murderer, click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click on the square underneath number 5, click on the "back" button, throw away the pipette tip and return the pipette back to the stand. By placing your cursor on the squares, you can read what content is placed there.

7. Click on the gel electrophoresis machine, click the "start" button.

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Animation - Gel electrophoresis===
Video (time 9.06 to 10.14)

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Animation - Gel electrophoresis quiz===
Video (time 10.15 to 10.42)

1. Quiz: ''We can see bands on the E-gel because there is _____ DNA.'' Answer (B).

2. Quiz: ''The DNA is _____ charged.'' Answer (D).

3. Quiz: ''Due to the negative charge of the DNA the DNA will move towards the _____ of the E-gel in an electric field.'' Answer (A).

4. You will now compare the DNA profile from the 3 suspects (PhD student, rivaling scientist and Post-doc) to the DNA profile from the murderer. Make your analysis, and then you can click on the lab assistant to report your findings.

5. Lab assistant: ''So who is the murderer then?'' Answer (B).

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Animation - Murderer conviction===
Video (time 10.43 to 11.05)

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]

===Laboratory - Judge quiz===
Video (time 11.06 to 12.43)

1. Quiz: ''_____ are the building blocks of new copies of _____.'' Answer (C).

2. Quiz: ''What is the function of primers in a PCR reaction?'' Answer (B).

3. Quiz: ''What would happen if no polymerase was added to the PCR reaction, new DNA would _____.'' Answer (C).

4. Quiz: ''Which reagent acts as a template for the DNA polymerase, so it knows which new DNA to make?'' Answer (A).

5. Quiz: ''DNA polymerase binds to the template DNA, and synthesizes new DNA in a _____ direction.'' Answer (C).

6. Quiz: ''It is the ability to _____ that makes the Tag-polymerase special compared to most other polymerases.'' Answer (B).

7. Quiz: ''Contamination of reagents often leads to...'' Answer (A).

8. Quiz: ''How many sets of primers are needed for DNA profiling?'' Answer (D).

9. Quiz: ''The purpose of PCR is...'' Answer (D).

10. Quiz: ''A PCR cycle repeated 30 times to _____.'' Answer (D).

11. Quiz: ''What can a DNA ladder help determine?'' Answer (C).

12. Quiz: ''Is it possible to distinguish individuals by running these PCR products on a gel because the PCR products _____.'' Answer (B).

13. Great job! Now you have completed the CSI case.

[[http://www.labster.com/trycsi/ Back to introduction]]