Ancient DNA is exciting to study because it can provide access to an
evolutionary point from the past! As you can read on the previous
section [DNA](/wiki/DNA_NGS "wikilink") can be extracted from any cell.
Ancient DNA refers to DNA that was extracted from ancient specimens,
such as skeletal materials, mummified tissues, or other specimens that
have not been preserved specifically for further DNA analysis. Ancient
DNA undergoes degradation due to temperature exposure, water exposure
and other factors. The older the DNA sample is, the more damage it
undergoes. But due to recent advances in DNA analysis technology, even
ancient DNA can be analyzed using Next Generation Sequencing.

![Several characteristics of ancient DNA are as follows: (a) single strand breaks, (b) cross-linking, and (c) oxidative and hydrolytic modification of bases. ''Willerslev, E. and Cooper, A., 2005, Proc.R.Soc.B, 272,3–16.]( AncientDNA.png "Several characteristics of ancient DNA are as follows: (a) single strand breaks, (b) cross-linking, and (c) oxidative and hydrolytic modification of bases. ''Willerslev, E. and Cooper, A., 2005, Proc.R.Soc.B, 272,3–16.")

### Ancient DNA characteristics

Ancient DNA shares some characteristics that are caused by the damages
they undergo. By identifying these characteristics, we can recognize the
ancient DNA sample from modern contaminating DNA (for example, the DNA
sample of an individual who did not handle the sample properly before
being analyzed in the laboratory). Below are some of the ancient DNA
characteristics that are normally used in Next Generation Sequencing
analysis.

-   **Cross-linking**\

Cross-linking can occur between bases on the same DNA strand, also
called as interstrand cross-links or between DNA and other molecules,
also called intermolecular cross-links. In intermolecular cross-links,
DNA can be cross-linked to another DNA strands or to a protein.
Cross-links may prevent the amplification of endogenous template
molecules, but it could also stabilize the DNA molecule over time, and
hence reduce the fragmentation.\

-   **Hydrolytic damages**\

Hydrolytic damages are responsible for damages in the sugar backbone; it
could result in single strand breaks or loss of DNA bases. When purines
(Adenine or Guanine) are lost, the event is referred to as
*de-purination*. Hydrolysis could also result in a conversion of base
from Cytosine to Uracil by releasing ammonia in the process. This even
is referred to as *de-amination*. De-amination could also occur in other
bases (Cytosine, Adenine, or Guanine).\

-   **Oxidative damages**\

Oxidative damages are caused by the direct interaction of ionizing
radiation with the DNA, as well as mediated by free radicals created
from water molecules by ionizing radiations resulting in modified bases.
Some oxidative damage results in lesions blocking the polymerase enzyme,
and promoting chimeric sequences through "jumping PCR".\

-   **Fragmentation**\

As described above, ancient DNA undergo many damages, including strand
breaks and de-purination that leads to short-size molecules. Because the
DNA strands are already fragmented, we do not need to expose the DNA
sample for further fragmentation in the Next Generation Sequencing
sample preparation step. According to recent studies, the average length
of ancient DNA fragments can vary from 50-150 bp.\

-   **Base substitution pattern**\

There are common base substitution patterns that are observed in ancient
DNA samples. Base substitutions of *C \> T* and *G \> A* are observed
higher in ancient DNA sample than what is found normally in modern DNA
samples. However, these substitutions are not equally distributed along
the DNA molecules. The *C \> T* substitutions are found most commonly a
the 5' end of the DNA molecule whereas the *G \> A* substitutions are
found most commonly a the 3' end of the DNA molecule.

You can read more about ancient DNA characteristic from this paper
[http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15875564 Ancient DNA by Eske
Willerslev and Alan
Cooper](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15875564 Ancient DNA by Eske Willerslev and Alan Cooper "wikilink").

[ ⇐ Previous (DNA)](/wiki/DNA_NGS "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/NGS_Case "wikilink")

