Many Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNP) have been identified that are
linked to a specific physical characteristic. You can read more about
these SNPs from [http://www.snpedia.com/index.php/SNPedia
SNPedia](http://www.snpedia.com/index.php/SNPedia SNPedia "wikilink").
Below is a list on some of the SNPs that were identified from the
ancient Greenland man.

-   **Rs6152**

This SNP is located in the first exon of Androgen Receptor gene located
on the X chromosome. It is a strong indicative marker for males to
develop a baldness pattern. Males with the risk allele G have a high
risk of developing male pattern baldness. But the baldness probability
varies depending on age and other factors.

-   **Rs1426654**

This SNP influences the skin pigmentation. People having allele A are
indicated to be light-skinned European ancestry. This SNP is estimated
to spread through the European population approximately 6,000 - 12,000
years ago. Prior to that, European ancestors were estimated to have
relatively brown skin.

-   **Rs17822931**

This is 1 of the most famous SNP identified. It is located in the
ATP-binding cassette, sub-family C (CFTR/MRP) which is a member of
ABCC11 gene. People having allele T/T commonly have dry ear wax and come
from the Asian ancestry, whereas people having allele C/C commonly have
wet ear wax and come from the European or African ancestry. This SNP is
also associated with sweat production and lipid secretion.

-   **Rs1129038**

This SNP is located on chromosome 15, allele A/A is found in 97% of all
Caucasians with blue eyes. People with allele C/C do not have blue eyes,
instead they have brown eyes.

-   **Rs3827760**

This SNP is located in EDAR (Ectodysplasin A Receptor) gene on position
1540. It is associated with hair thickness and tooth shape among Asians.
People having C in the 1540 position instead of T are associated with
having shovel shaped tooth. It is predominantly found in East Asian
populations and absent in populations of African and European origins.
The 1540C allele has also been associated with Asian-specific hair
thickness.

[‚áê Theory overview](/wiki/NGS_Case "wikilink")

