![Figure 1. An illustration showing how primary cancer invades through
the blood vessel producing secondary cancer (or metastasis). This image
was provided by Jane Hurd and released by the National Cancer
Institute.]( Metastasis illustration.jpg "fig:Figure 1. An illustration showing how primary cancer invades through the blood vessel producing secondary cancer (or metastasis). This image was provided by Jane Hurd and released by the National Cancer Institute.")
Cancer is a term used to describe a group of diseases involving
unregulated cell growth. In cancer diseases, cells multiple
uncontrollably, thereby creating malignant tumors that spread into other
parts of the body. Please note that cancer and the word tumor are not
the same. A tumor can be either benign or malignant. Benign tumors are
tumors that do not invade other parts of the body; they are localized in
a specific organ and usually have a much better prognosis. On the other
hand, malignant tumors are dangerous because they have the capability to
spread to and invade other organs. They can enter the bloodstream or the
lymphatic system and distally spread to other parts of the body; this
process is also called metastasis (Figure 1). For example, it is common
for breast cancer to metastasize into other parts of the body including
axillary lymph nodes, the lungs, and the brain.

Tumor suppressors and Oncogenes
-------------------------------

Think of tumor suppressors as the brakes that prevent cancer development
and oncogenes as the gas pedal that accelerates cancer development.
There are several functions of tumor suppressor genes, such as ensuring
the cell cycle controls and checkpoints, repairing DNA damage, promoting
apoptosis, and preventing epithelial to mesenchymal transitions (EMT).
When the tumor suppressor genes are inactivated, these functions are
impaired and can result in cells containing damaged DNA to proliferate
uncontrollably, thereby forming tumors and eventually metastasizing to
other parts of the body. There are several ways in which tumor
suppressor genes can be deactivated, such as through epigenetic
regulation (promoter hypermethylation), gene deletion, or mutations
resulting in protein truncation. Most tumor suppressors are recessive,
and both alleles need to be inactivated for the phenotype to appear.
With only one of the alleles still active, this tumor suppressor gene
can still perform its functions. *BRCA1/2* are an example of tumor
suppressors, along with many other examples such as *P53*, *PTEN*, *RB*,
*APC*, and others.

Oncogenes, on the other hand, are dominant; mutation in only one of the
alleles is sufficient to make cells evade apoptosis and continue
proliferating. In cancer, proto-oncogenes can be mutated, resulting in
gain of function. When a proto-oncogene is activated, it is then
referred to as oncogenes. Oncogenes can be activated by several ways,
including mutation, epigenetic regulation, chromosomal translocation, or
gene duplication. The result is hyperactive or highly expressed
oncogenes that overcome the functions of tumor suppressor genes and
promote cancer development. Examples of oncogenes include *MYC*, *RAS*,
*TGF-B*, *HER2*, *ERK*, and others.

Sporadic vs. heritable cancer
-----------------------------

Cancer is a genetic disease that is caused by aberrations that occur on
DNA. This also means that the aberrations can be passed on from the
parents to their offspring, resulting in a heritable cancer. These
individuals are born with one defected allele that is inherited from one
of their parents. Defected tumor suppressors are more commonly inherited
than oncogenes. For tumor suppressors, both alleles need to be
nonfunctional for cancer to develop. This was first explained by Alfred
G. Knudson in 1971 with Knudson’s two-hit hypothesis. Alfred used
retinoblastoma (a cancer that develops in the retina) that occurs in
very young children. He then discovered that these children inherited a
defective tumor suppressor gene called *RB1* from one of their parents.
The first hit refers to the defect that is inherited, and the second hit
is an event that occurs during life. This could be due to random
mutations that occur during cell division or upon an external factor,
such as sun radiation that results in inactivation of the second allele.
Because these individuals already have the first hit, they develop
cancer at a much earlier age than other individuals who are born with
both healthy alleles because these individuals need to acquire both hits
during their life (Figure 2). . ![Figure 2. Illustration of Knudson’s
two-hit hypothesis of tumor suppressor inactivation in familial
(hereditable) cancer. 10 Knudson, A.G. (1971) Mutation and cancer:
statistical study of retinoblastoma. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 68,
820-823, [
PubMed](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=PubMed&cmd=Retrieve&list_uids=71153958&dopt=Abstract "wikilink").]( Knudson.gif "fig:Figure 2. Illustration of Knudson’s two-hit hypothesis of tumor suppressor inactivation in familial (hereditable) cancer. 10 Knudson, A.G. (1971) Mutation and cancer: statistical study of retinoblastoma. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 68, 820-823,  PubMed.")

Reference
---------

1\. Knudson AG Jr., 1971, *Mutation and cancer: statistical study of
retinoblastoma.* Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. Apr;68(4):820-3.

[Next (Breast cancer) ⇒](/wiki/Breast_cancer "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/Medical_Genetics_case "wikilink")

