![**Figure 1.** An example of chromatogram.]( Chromatogram.png "Figure 1. An example of chromatogram.")

The chromatogram (see Figure 1) is the representation of the signal
strength acquired by the detector vs. time. Before the analyte reaches
the detector, we get some signal which is only noise and is called
baseline. When the analyte reaches the detector, this signal starts
increasing until a maximum and then decrease until all the analyte has
been detected. This maximum corresponds to the peak height. The time
from the injection until this peak maximum is called retention time
(t~R~)

Peak
----

Apart from the retention time and the peak height, another part of the
peak is the width, which is measured as it is shown in the Figure.
Sometimes it is interesting to measure the half of the peak (Height/2)
and how broad the peak is at that point (w~1/2~) These numbers are
useful to calculate the so called “number of plates” (N), which is a
value that gives an idea of how efficient a column is. The higher the
number, the more efficient the column. That is, columns that lead to
narrower and sharper peaks.

![]( N2.png " N2.png")

In addition, when two peaks appear in the chromatogram, these parameters
help to calculate the resolution (R), which gives an idea of how good
the separation of the two analytes is. It should normally be higher than
1.5 for good quantification.

![]( Resolution1.png " Resolution1.png")

There are several instances where a separation is not successfully
reached and the resulting is a merged peak instead of several
distinctive peaks corresponding to each compounds. As we have discussed
earlier, separation is defined by the interaction of analyte to the
mobile and stationary phase. When both of the mobile and stationary
phase has the same polarity, no separation can be achieved. This will
result in a chromatogram showing a merged peak.

Concentration
-------------

If you count from the baseline, you can see that the curve contains a
defined area under it. The peak area is used to make the calibration.
This is done because that area is proportional to the concentration of
the analyte. The higher the concentration, the larger the peak and,
thus, the higher the peak area.

Once you have plotted the points using the peak areas of the known
concentrations, you can make linear regression analysis (y = mx + y~0~)
to find out the equation that relates the peak area and the
concentration of the analyte. The peak area is plotted on the y axis and
the analyte concentration is plotted on the x axis. y~0~ is the point
where the line intersects the y axis, which is constant. When you apply
a linear regression analysis, you will be able to determine the slope
(m) of the line. Thus, you can use the peak area that was processed for
your unknown sample and calculate the concentration of the analyte, as
shown in the Figure 2.

![**Figure 2.** Calibration curve showing the relation between peak area
to the
concentration.]( Calibration curve.png "Figure 2. Calibration curve showing the relation between peak area to the concentration.")

[⇐ Previous (Data analysis)](/wiki/Data_analysis "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/HPLC "wikilink")

