The word “Chromatography” comes from the Greek words "chroma", which
means “color”, and "graphos", which means “to draw”. This name was
chosen by the Russian botanist, Tswett. He separated different pigments
from a plant extract when passing a solvent through a column filled with
calcium carbonate where the sample was placed. This was the start of
this widely used and versatile technique.

![Tswett's experiment of separating the 3 pigments from a plant
extract.]( Tswett.gif "fig:Tswett's experiment of separating the 3 pigments from a plant extract.")\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\

Principles of Chromatography
----------------------------

Chromatography is based on the separation of sample components in a
mixture. This separation takes place due to interactions between a
stationary phase and a mobile phase. A mobile phase, as its name
suggests, is a phase that travels through the stationary phase.
Depending on the strength of interaction, the compounds can be more
attracted to the stationary or the mobile phase.

The speed of a migrating sample component depends on whether the
component has an affinity for the stationary or mobile phase. This
affinity appears via various actions: adsorption, partition, ion
exchange, etc. If the component has a higher affinity to the mobile
phase, it will not spend too much time with the stationary phase and
will be eluted quite fast. On the other hand, if the component has a
higher affinity to the stationary phase, it will spend more time with
the stationary phase and will be eluted later. The result is that the
amount of time a compound stays in the column is different based on its
property. Differences in this time lead to the separation of the
compounds in the starting mixture.

Chromatography techniques
-------------------------

Generally chromatography techniques can be divided into 2 large classes.
Depending on the stationary and mobile phases, different types of
chromatography can be distinguished:

  ---------------------------------------------------------
  Mobile Phase   Stationary Phase   Technique
                                    
  -------------- ------------------ -----------------------
  Gas            Solid/Liquid       Gas Chromatography
                                    

  Liquid         Solid/Liquid       Liquid Chromatography
                                    
  ---------------------------------------------------------

[Next (High Performance Liquid
Chromatography)⇒](/wiki/High_Performance_Liquid_Chromatography "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/HPLC "wikilink")

