For growing microorganisms in the laboratory, a nutrient solution called
culture medium is used. Every microorganism has different nutritional
needs and the ability to obtain nutrition from media. Microorganisms
have various metabolism pathways that lead to different metabolism
products. In that case, the amount and type of nutrient to be added in a
medium must be thought carefully to ensure successful growth and
production of desirable metabolites. Several parameters that influence
microbial growth are nutrient composition, salt ionic concentration, pH,
and temperature.

### Nutrition

Nutrient is a chemical substance required by the organism for growth.
Not all nutrients are required in the same amount. Essential elements
required by organism are hydrogen (H), oxygen (O), carbon (C), nitrogen
(N), phosphorous (P), and sulfur (S). Chemical formula estimated for a
cell is CH~1.8~O~0.5~N~0.2~ which means that C, H, O, and N dominate the
nutrient required by organism. Other than C, N, O, and H, microorganisms
also require many other elements but in smaller amounts. Phosphorous,
generally obtained, in the form of phosphate (PO~4~^2-^), is a key
element in nucleic acids and phospholipids. Microorganisms also require
trace metals such as copper, iron, zinc, and cobalt inside the culture
medium. These trace metals are generally provided in the form of ions
that will serve as cofactors in enzymatic reactions. Iron is required
for the synthesis of heme-containing compounds such as cytochromes and
the electron transport system.

### Physical Condition

![ Effect of temperature on microbial growth](/wiki/temperature effect.jpg " Effect of temperature on microbial growth")

Growth is defined as an increase in the number of cells. The growth of
microorganism is greatly affected by environment conditions such as
temperature, pH, water availability, oxygen, pressure and radiation. To
achieve desirable growth of microorganisms, nutrient content of the
medium as well as the environment condition must be suitable.

Every microorganism has a minimum and maximum tolerable temperature.
There are three critical temperatures for microorganisms that are
generally determined by the temperature at which the microorganism’s
enzyme function. Those three critical temperatures (also called cardinal
temperature) are as follows:

-   Minimum growth temperature: the lowest temperature where cells can
    still divide
-   Maximum growth temperature: the highest temperature where cells can
    still divide
-   Optimum growth temperature: the temperature where cells divide most
    rapidly

Generally, the increase in temperature is affected the increase in cell
growth until it reaches the optimum temperature and the cell growth will
drop significantly after the optimum temperature until it reaches the
maximum temperature. Temperature plays a key role in cell growth by
affecting enzyme activity and cell component rigidity. When the
temperature rises, enzymatic reactions in cells occur rapidly and growth
becomes faster; however, above optimum temperature, cell components
become damaged. This cell damage at a high temperature may be
irreversible and eventually cause cell death. Near minimum temperature,
growth becomes slower. One hypothesis about this phenomenon is that
microorganism’s cytoplasmic membrane stiffens to the point that it no
longer supports cell transportation function. Yeast cells used in
industries are generally grown in the range of 20-40°C.

Beside temperature, pH, which expresses acidity or alkalinity of an
environment also affects microorganism’s cell growth significantly.
Every microorganism also has an optimum pH. Optimum pH for most
fungi(including yeast) is slightly acidic. The pH affects enzyme and
protein condition, and can cause enzyme denaturation and interfere with
membrane ion pumping.

[⇐ Previous (Sterilization)](/wiki/Sterilization "wikilink") / [Next (Cell
Metabolism) ⇒](/wiki/Cell_Metabolism "wikilink")\
[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/Fermentation_Case "wikilink")

