![Figure 1. DNA is made up of [Nucleotides](/wiki/Nucleotides "wikilink") abbreviated as A, T, C and G. They pair as A–T and G-C)](/wiki/DNA helix bases.png "Figure 1. DNA is made up of Nucleotides abbreviated as A, T, C and G. They pair as A–T and G-C)")

DNA is the hereditary material of all living organisms, including
humans. DNA stores information through a code made up of four chemical
bases: A (adenine), T (thymine), C (cytosine), and G (guanine), and it
is the order (or sequence) of these four bases that determines the
information provided by DNA. The information is used as an instruction
for building and maintaining all the cells of an organism. Figure 1.
illustrates how these four bases are organized. The human genome
consists of approximately 3.2 billion base pairs.

DNA structure
-------------

![Figure 2. DNA is organized in a double-helix form. It is said to be antiparallel because one strand runs in the 5′→3′ direction and the other runs in the 3'→5' direction](/wiki/Dna chemical.png "fig:Figure 2. DNA is organized in a double-helix form. It is said to be antiparallel because one strand runs in the 5′→3′ direction and the other runs in the 3'→5' direction")\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
DNA is composed of 2 strands running in opposite directions that are
twisted together, also called the double helix. The strands are composed
of nucleotides and deoxyribose sugars. A phosphodiester link connects
the deoxyribose sugars with each other, and the hydrogen bonds between
phosphates cause the DNA strand to twist. The two strands are bound with
weak hydrogen bonds between the complementary nucleotides. The
nitrogenous bases are “inside” like rungs on a ladder. Adenine binds
with thymine and cytosine binds with guanine (Figure 2).\
\
\
\
\

Collecting a DNA sample
-----------------------

DNA is stored in the nucleus of each cell. This means that DNA can be
harvested from any sample containing eukaryotic cells. Usually, a blood
sample is collected, and DNA is then extracted from the white blood
cells (red blood cells do not contain a nucleus). If blood sampling is
impossible or too risky (children, animals, forensics), smaller amounts
of DNA can also be extracted from a mouth swab (containing epithelial
cells) or a few hair follicles.

There are several types of DNA, including genomic, complementary,
mitochondrial, and noncoding DNA. Genomic DNA is the full-length DNA
sequence, including coding (exons) and noncoding (introns). All cells in
our body will have the same genomic DNA sequence unless there has been a
somatic mutation or aberrations that occur during the course of life.
Complementary DNA is DNA that is created by reverse transcription RNA;
it is usually used in the quantitative PCR method to quantify the level
of gene expression. Because complementary DNA is created on the basis of
RNA template, it only contains the exons of the gene. DNA present on the
mitochondria is also called mitochondrial DNA. In humans, mitochondrial
DNA can only be passed on from the mother. Noncoding DNA denotes DNA
sequences that do not code for any specific proteins. Humans have a high
percentage of noncoding DNA in the genome; in fact, almost 98% of our
genome consists of noncoding DNA!

DNA extraction
--------------

DNA can be extracted from any cell. First, we need to disrupt the cell
(also known as cell lysis). This can be achieved using chemical and
physical methods, grinding, or sonicating the cell. Once the cell is
disrupted, we need to remove the membrane lipids by adding surfactants
or detergents, digest the protein using protease, and remove RNA using
RNase. Following this, we can precipitate DNA (for example, using
ethanol) and isolate DNA from all other materials present in a cell.
There are several methods that one can choose to extract DNA; one of the
most popular methods is the use of phenol and chloroform; however, newer
methods that are easier and safer have been developed, for example,
using column separation. Please note that extracting DNA from a bone
sample can be quite tricky as compared to blood samples or tissue
samples. There are many commercial kits available for extracting
specific sample including for bone samples.

[Next (Ancient DNA sample) ⇒](/wiki/Ancient_DNA_sample "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/NGS_Case "wikilink")

