Diffusion
---------

Diffusion is a transport phenomenon where particles move from a region
in which they are highly concentrated to a region in which they are less
concentrated. The speed at which these particles move is known as rate
of diffusion and it is influenced by the following factors:

-   **Temperature:** *If the temperature increases, diffusion rate
    increases*.

When temperature increases, kinetic energy of the particles increases,
which means that particles move faster. Thus, particles spread faster in
the solution, increasing the rate of diffusion.

-   **Size of the particle:** *If the size of particle increases, rate
    of diffusion decreases*.

Particles of larger size become less mobile in the solvent, decreasing
their speed and, thus, decreasing the diffusion rate.

-   **Mass of the particle:** *If the mass of the particle increases,
    the rate of diffusion decreases*.

The same as before, heavier particles are less mobile in solution,
decreasing the rate of diffusion. In a solution, **solute** is the
substance that you want to dissolve and **solvent** is the media where
you want to dissolve that solute. In the case of cells, water is the
major constituent and it is the main solvent where substances are
dissolved to be able to participate in reactions.

Osmosis
-------

Osmosis is a special case of diffusion in which the concentrations of
two solutions, which are separated by a partially permeable membrane,
are equilibrated. This equilibration happens when solvent molecules go
from the most concentrated solution to the least concentrated one.

In the case of the cells, osmosis occurs as cell membranes are
semi-permeable. The following three situations may happen:

-   **Hypotonic medium** -\> the concentration of the solute outside the
    cell is lower than in the cell and due to osmosis, there is net
    movement of water molecules from outside the cell to the inside the
    cell.

-   **Isotonic medium** -\> the solute outside the cell has the same
    concentration as in the cell. Therefore, there is no net movement of
    water molecules across the cell membrane in any direction.

-   **Hypertonic medium** -\> the concentration of the solute outside
    the cell is higher than in the cell. This leads to the net movement
    of water molecules from the cell to the medium outside.

Osmosis phenomena need to be controlled and it is very important in the
case of blood cells. If you introduce too much water inside the
erythrocytes (the medium around the cell will be hypotonic) causes cell
swell and cells may eventually burst. On the other hand, losing too much
water (the medium around the cell will be hypertonic) causes cell
shrink.

![Osmosis phenomena in red blood
cells.](Osmotic_pressure_on_blood_cells_diagram.png "Osmosis phenomena in red blood cells.")

Water potential
---------------

Water potential (ψ) quantifies the tendency of water to move from one
region to another for example in osmosis. It is the sum of several
potentials including the pressure potential (ψ~p~) and solute potential
(ψ~π~).

**ψ = ψ~p~ + ψ~π~**

-   **Pressure potential (ψ~p~):** *If pressure increases, water
    potential increases*.

-   **Solute potential (ψ~π~):** *If solute concentration increases,
    water potential decreases*.

The solute potential (ψ~π~) can be calculated with **van't Hoff
equation**: ψ~π~ = i∙C∙R∙T

Where i is the van 't Hoff factor or ionization constant (ratio of
particles in solution to amount dissolved), C is the molar concentration
of the solute (mol/L), R is the ideal gas constant (0.00831
L∙bar/mol∙K), and T is the absolute temperature (K). Notice that
ionization constant is 1 for molecules that do not ionize when
dissolved.

[\<-- Previous (Acid and base)](Acid and base "wikilink") / [Next (Blood
typing) --\>](Blood typing "wikilink")

[\<-- Theory overview](Intro Lab "wikilink")

