![A reaction from a substrate to product is a transition from 1 energy state to another. A transition state exists between the substrate and product. This state has a higher energy level than both the substrate and product. A catalyst will lower this energy level, so that the transition energy is reached more easily, and this results in a faster reaction.](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/ActivationEnergy.png "A reaction from a substrate to product is a transition from 1 energy state to another. A transition state exists between the substrate and product. This state has a higher energy level than both the substrate and product. A catalyst will lower this energy level, so that the transition energy is reached more easily, and this results in a faster reaction.")

Enzymes are proteins that act as catalysts of specific reactions. They
act by lowering the activation energy, thereby making the reaction
proceed at a much higher rate. It is important to note that enzymes do
not change the equilibria of a reaction; they can only increase the
rate. Without the enzyme, the reaction would therefore still proceed in
the same direction; however, it would be slower, often a lot slower.
Enzymes usually increase reaction rates between 10^5^ and 10^7^ times.
Enzymes are required in our body to perform specific metabolic
reactions. They are highly specific for their substrates, much like a
key is specific to a specific door. The specificity of enzymes for their
substrates led Emil Fischer to propose the so-called "lock and key"
hypothesis in 1894. However, the "lock and key" hypothesis implies an
idea of enzymes as static molecules, which they are not. Another
mechanism called induced fit is therefore now the preferred model;
according to this model, the enzyme undergoes conformational changes
when binding to the substrate, and these changes are necessary for
catalysis [1,2].

### How does an enzyme lower the activation energy?

There are many different ways by which enzymes enhance the rate of their
specific reactions. When 2 substrates are transformed into 1 or more
products, the enzyme will bind both substrates, thereby ensuring that
they are in close vicinity and correctly oriented towards each other.
When the reaction occurs without the enzyme, the 2 substrates have to
hit each other from the correct angle and with enough energy (speed) to
overcome the much higher activation energy. When the substrates are
bound by an enzyme, these challenges are overcome by the structure of
the enzyme. An important characteristic of enzymes (and catalysts in
general) is that they are not used up during the reaction. When a
reaction has been catalyzed by the enzyme, it is ready to convert
another set of substrates. [1]

References
----------

1\. Lehninger, Albert L.; Nelson, David L.; Cox, Michael M. (2008).
*Principles of Biochemistry* (5th ed.). New York, NY: W.H. Freeman and
Company. ISBN 978-0-7167-7108-1.

2\. Atkins, Peter W.; de Paula, Julio; Friedman, Ronald (2009). *Quanta,
Matter, and Change: A molecular approach to physical chemistry*. Oxford
University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-920606-3.

[Next (ADH) ⇒](/wiki/ADH "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/Enzyme_Kinetics "wikilink")

