![ *Saccharomyces cerevisiae*](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/Saccharomyces_cerevisiae.jpg "fig: Saccharomyces cerevisiae")
![*Lactobacillus acidophilus*](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/Lactobacillus_acidophilus.jpg "fig:Lactobacillus acidophilus")

Fermentation is a form of anaerobic catabolism in which an organic
compound is both an electron donor and an electron acceptor.
Fermentation used as a way of harvesting chemical energy without using
either oxygen or any electron transport chain, in other words, without
cellular respiration. In fermentation, ATP is produced through a
substrate-level phosphorylation.

Glycolysis will begin the process of glucose metabolism, generating
pyruvate. Fermentation converts pyruvate into lactic acid or ethyl
alcohol (ethanol). The two most commonly occurring fermentation pathways
are homolactic acid fermentation and alcoholic fermentation. In both
forms of fermentation, NAD^+^ is regenerated from NADH, and glycolysis
can thus continue.

Fermentation, by definition, is anaerobic; the process it self does not
require oxygen. Aerobic fermentation means that oxygen is present in the
environment when the fermentation process takes place (e.g. oxygen is
pumped into the bioreactor where bioethanol fermentation takes place).

![Alcoholic fermentation](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/Alcohol_fermentation.jpg "Alcoholic fermentation")

### Alcohol fermentation

In alcohol fermentation, pyruvate is converted into ethanol (ethyl
alcohol) while releasing carbon dioxide in the process. There are two
step involved in pyruvate conversion:

-   Release carbon dioxide from the pyruvate, which is converted to the
    two-carbon compound acetaldehyde
-   Acetaldehyde reduction by NADH to ethanol.

These step provide continous supply of NAD^+^ for ATP generating
glycolysis. One of the microorganism that can perform alcohol
fermentation is yeast such as *Saccharomyces cerevisiae*.

![Lactic acid fermentation](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/Lactic_acid_fermentation.jpg "Lactic acid fermentation")

### Lactic Acid fermentation

In lactic acid fermentation, pyruvate is converted directly to lactate,
with no release of carbon dioxide. Lactic acid fermentation are perform
by certain fungi and lactic acid bacteria. These type of fermentation
have been utilized for production of cheese(*Lactobacillus lactis*),
yogurt (*Lactobacillus acidophilus*, Streptococcus thermophilus'', and
*Lactobacillus bulgaricus*), and other fermented dairy products.

[⇐ Previous (Electron Transport
Chain)](/wiki/Electron_Transport_Chain "wikilink") / [Next (Microbe
Identification) ⇒](/wiki/Microbe_Identification "wikilink")\
 [⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/Fermentation_Case "wikilink")

