Gel electrophoresis is a method used in laboratories to separate DNA
fragments of different sizes and to estimate these sizes. DNA, for
instance, a PCR product, is loaded in small wells in one end of a gel.
An electric current is then applied to the gel (the positive electrode
opposite to the wells). Because DNA is negatively charged, it will move
through the gel toward the positive electrode. Smaller DNA molecules
move faster through the gel than larger DNA molecules, leading to size
separation. After electrophoresis, DNA is visualized and appears as
bands under each well. Only a large amount of DNA (millions of copies)
can be visualized. A “DNA ladder” containing a mixture of DNA fragments
of known sizes is also loaded on the gel. The sizes of the DNA samples
can then be estimated by comparing with the DNA ladder (Figure 1).

![Figure 1. Fragments of different length from a PCR reaction are run on a gel. The fragments will move at a speed and a distance relative to their size: smaller DNA molecules will move down the gel faster and further than longer DNA molecules.]( Gelelektroforese.jpg "Figure 1. Fragments of different length from a PCR reaction are run on a gel. The fragments will move at a speed and a distance relative to their size: smaller DNA molecules will move down the gel faster and further than longer DNA molecules.")

By mixing the PCR product with loading buffer, we can visualize how far
the PCR product has traveled during gel electrophoresis. Loading buffer
is also useful in making the sample heavier so that when you pipette it
onto the gel, the sample will sink to the bottom of the gel.\
 There are many compositions for loading buffer; however, it will
typically contain the following:

-   **Coloring reagent**, for example, xylene cyanol, cresol red,
    bromophenol blue, or orange G

This will add color to the sample and help you visualize the sample
position on the agarose gel.\
\***High-viscosity reagent**, for example, Ficoll, sucrose, or glycerol
This will make the sample heavier by increasing the overall sample
viscosity.\
\***Water** to dilute the above mentioned reagents.

[← Previous (Nucleotides)](/wiki/Nucleotides "wikilink") / [Next (DNA Ladder)
→](/wiki/DNA_Ladder "wikilink")

[← Theory Overview](/wiki/CSI_Case "wikilink")

