We can perform genetic testing to determine whether the trait is
inherited in the family. In 1990, Mary-Claire King from UC Berkeley
performed linkage analysis in families that have breast cancer and
narrowed down the location of the gene to chromosome 17q21
[1](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2270482|PubMed). This gene was
later named as *BRCA1*.

Linkage analysis
----------------

![Figure 1. Homologous recombination during meiosis giving rise to new genetic variations.]( HR.png "fig:Figure 1. Homologous recombination during meiosis giving rise to new genetic variations.")
Genes that are located in proximity with each other tend to be inherited
together during meiosis. During meiosis, the two sister chromatids are
separated and crossing over can occur, resulting in homologous
recombination, where material from one sister chromatid is transferred
to the other chromatid. This event gives rise to genetic variations that
separate one individual from the others. As shown in Figure 1, when two
genes are located close to each other, they have a high chance of being
inherited together because they are both exchanged during homologous
recombination. On the other hand, if two genes are located at opposite
ends of the chromosome, they will not be inherited together. One gene
will be included in the homologous recombination and transferred into
one <span style="color:#FF4500">sister chromatids</span> while the other
gene will stay in the <span style="color:#0000FF">original
chromatids</span>. Because only one pair of chromatids (one chromosome)
is passed to the offspring and the two genes are now located in two
different chromosomes, the offspring will only inherit one of the two
genes.

Linkage analysis is very useful to determine the approximate location of
an interesting gene, for example, one that is suspected to cause a
disease or condition. To identify this gene, we can use markers or
specific DNA sequences with known exact locations. For example, we can
use microsatellites or SNP (single nucleotide polymorphism) as markers.
By observing which allele variation is always present in the affected
individual, we can then narrow down the approximate location of the
gene.

We need to analyze many individuals in the family over several
generations to identify the gene location because we need to find a
specific allele that is always present in the affected individual and
never present in the healthy individual. There are less genetic
variations within a family because they are all genetically related.
This is why it is best to compare individuals within a close family
rather than finding a healthy individual from an unrelated family. A
healthy individual may have the same allele. However, because an
individual comes from an unrelated family, that individual does not
possess the disease gene. Therefore, we always need to compare within a
close family.

Microsatellite
--------------

Microsatellites are short repeating DNA sequences of two to six base
pairs. The numbers of repeats can vary among individuals; they represent
the different alleles. For example, allele 1 has four repeats, allele 2
has five repeats, allele 3 has six repeats, and so forth. SNPs can also
be used as markers in linkage analysis; however, there are only two
alleles for SNPs. For example, C/T, which means that allele 1 has C,
while allele 2 has T. Due to the higher number of variability in
microsatellites than in SNPs, it is easier to perform linkage analysis
using microsatellites.

One of the most common examples of microsatellite is (CA)~n~, where ~n~
represents the number of CA repeats. The number of repeats can vary
between three to 100 times, creating a high number of alleles that are
present in the population. Remember that this high number of alleles is
present in the population and not in the individual! We only have two
copies of chromosomes meaning that we only have maximum two different
alleles present in our cells. When an individual has two different
alleles, for example (CA)~10~ and (CA)~15~ he/she is said to be
heterozygous for the microsatellite. On the other hand, when an
individual has only one allele in both the chromosomes, he/she is said
to be homozygous for the microsatellite. We can analyze the genotype of
the microsatellite by amplifying it using [PCR](/wiki/PCR_MG "wikilink") and
analyzing the length (the number of repeats) using [gel
electrophoresis](/wiki/Gel_electrophoresis_MG "wikilink").

Reference
---------

1\. Hall JM, Lee MK, Newman B, Morrow JE, Anderson LA, Huey B, King MC.,
1990, *Linkage of early-onset familial breast cancer to chromosome
17q21.* Science Dec 21;250(4988):1684-9.

[Next (PCR) ⇒](/wiki/PCR_MG "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/Medical_Genetics_case "wikilink")

