High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) is a type of liquid
chromatography. HPLC is a very powerful technique that can be used to
identify, quantify or purify components of a mixture. HPLC is different
from the traditional liquid chromatography because it utilizes a
significantly higher operational pressure (50-350 bar), while the
ordinary liquid chromatography typically uses the gravity force to pass
the mobile phase through the stationary phase.

Principles of HPLC
------------------

[frame |500px| Figure 1. Components of an HPLC instrument (based on:
<http://www.waters.com/waters/en_US/How-Does-High-Performance-Liquid-Chromatography-Work%3F/nav.htm?cid=10049055&locale=en_US>)](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/File:_HPLC_components.jpg "wikilink")

As it is shown in Figure 1, this method uses a column which is filled
with fine beads that form the **stationary phase** and a solvent, which
is known as **mobile phase** and, as the name suggests, moves over the
column due to pressure that is generated by the pump.

When a mixture of analytes (<span style="color:#ff0000">A</span>,
<span style="color:#008000">B</span> and
<span style="color:#0000ff">C</span>) pass through the column, they will
interact differently with the stationary phase based on their property.
Analytes that interact the least with the stationary phase will move the
fastest <span style="color:#ff0000">(A)</span>. In contrast, analytes
that interact the most with the stationary phase will stay longer in the
column <span style="color:#0000ff">(C)</span>) and reach the detector
last.

In chromatography, compounds that alike attract each others. Polar
compounds will be most attracted to other polar compounds and non polar
compounds will be most attracted to other polar compounds.

Two different techniques: normal- and reverse-phase HPLC
--------------------------------------------------------

Based on the polarity of the mobile phase and stationary phase, HPLC can
be classified into "normal-phase" or "reverse-phase". In "normal-phase
HPLC" the stationary phase is polar and the mobile phase is non polar.
When the polarity is reversed, the technique is then called
"reverse-phase HPLC" where the stationary phase is non polar and the
mobile phase is polar.

"Reverse-phase" HPLC is the most common HPLC method. When using
"reverse-phase" non-polar compounds
<span style="color:#0000ff">(C)</span> interact the most with the
stationary phase and are retained more in the column and elute last,
while the polar compounds <span style="color:#ff0000">(A)</span>
interact the most with the mobile phase and elute first.

Applications of HPLC
--------------------

HPLC is a widely used tool for analysis of all kind of samples. This
technique is so powerful because in the appropriate conditions, complex
mixtures of several compounds can be separated. Thus, it can useful for
example in the food industry, forensic samples and also in pharmacy to
separate and identify the active compounds and excipients present in
drugs.

[⇐ Previous (Chromatography)](/wiki/Chromatography "wikilink") / [Next
(Lipophilic interaction) ⇒](/wiki/Lipophilic_interaction "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/HPLC "wikilink")

