As written in the previous section [High Performance Liquid
Chromatography](High Performance Liquid Chromatography "wikilink"), the
separation takes place in the column due to interactions between the
analyte and the stationary and mobile phases.

There is an equilibrium between the analyte in the two phases. The more
the analyte interacts with the stationary phase, the more it will stay
in the column. If it interacts more with the mobile phase, it will stay
less time in the column. The partition coefficient (*K*) is used to
relate the concentration of the analyte in each of the two phases, as
shown below:

![]( Partition coefficient.png " Partition coefficient.png")

Where *K* is the Partition coefficient, *C~A~^stationary\\ phase^* is
the molar concentration of analyte in the stationary phase and
*C~A~^mobile\\ phase^* is the molar concentration of the analyte in the
mobile phase. The longer an analyte spends time in the stationary phase,
the larger the *K* value is.

London dispersion force
-----------------------

![London Dispersion force is a weak interaction that occurs between non
polar
molecules.]( London Dispension Force.jpg "London Dispersion force is a weak interaction that occurs between non polar molecules.")

There are different types of interactions occurring between the side
chains of the beads of the column and the analytes in the sample. One of
those interactions is the so called London dispersion force. This is a
weak interaction that occurs between two molecules that are non polar,
that is, two lipophilic molecules. This force is present between two
instantaneously induced dipoles, which are due to the movement of
electrons in the molecules. If the stationary phase has non polar chains
attached to the inert support (for example the C-18 chain seen in the
figure), analytes with non polar groups (for example Magnesium Stearate
seen in the figure) will present London dispersion forces and stay
longer in the column.

[⇐ Previous (High Performance Liquid
Chromatography)](High Performance Liquid Chromatography "wikilink") / [
Next (HPLC machine)⇒ ](HPLC_machine "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](HPLC "wikilink")

