Hereditary
----------

![Figure 1. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosome, 22 pairs of autosomes, and one pair of sex chromosome. Because there both X and Y are present, this individual is a male.](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/23chromosomes.gif "fig:Figure 1. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosome, 22 pairs of autosomes, and one pair of sex chromosome. Because there both X and Y are present, this individual is a male.")
As humans, we have two copies of chromosomes containing many genes. We
inherit one set of chromosomes from our father and one set from our
mother. In total, there are 46 chromosomes in each of our cells: 23 from
the father and 23 from the mother. Chromosomes 1–22 are referred to as
autosomes and the last chromosome pair (X or Y) is referred to as sex
chromosomes. Chromosome 1 is the largest chromosome containing the most
genes and is the longest chromosome in base pairs. Due to alternative
splicing and the number of noncoding DNA, the number of genes located in
a chromosome is not always proportional to the length of the chromosome.
Figure 1 illustrates the 23 pairs of human chromosomes.

Allele
------

Allele is a number of alternative forms that a gene can have. Because we
have two pairs of chromosomes, our genes have two alleles. The sex
chromosomes are slightly different because males only have one X
chromosome and one Y chromosome; therefore, genes that are located in
these two chromosomes have only one allele.

As written above, a gene can have two alleles. If both alleles are the
same, it is said to be **homozygous**; otherwise it is said to be
**heterozyous**. Let’s consider an example of hair color; allele *a* is
responsible to produce blond hair color, while allele *A* is responsible
to produce dark hair color. Individuals with genotype *aa* or *AA* are
**homozygous** while individuals with genotype *aA* or *Aa* are
**heterozygous**.

An allele is dominant if it determines the phenotypic outcome. For
example, an individual with genotype *aA* has dark hair color, which
means that allele *A* is dominant over allele *a*. Because the outcome
of genotype *aA* is the same as the outcome of genotype *AA* that is
homozygous for dark hair color, only individuals with genotype *aa* have
blond hair color. We normally denote the dominant allele as capital
letters and the recessive allele as small letters.

  ------------------------
  Genotypes   Phenotypes
              
  ----------- ------------
  *AA*        Dark hair
              

  *Aa*        Dark hair
              

  *aA*        Dark hair
              

  *aa*        Blond hair
              
  ------------------------

Many genes are involved in determining the phenotype, for example, hair
color is determined by at least two genes: eumelanin that produces the
brown–black color and pheomelanin that predominates in red hair. Blond
hair contains low levels of both pigments. In addition, more than one
gene determines hair color; however, the expression level of these genes
also plays a significant role. The higher the expression level, the
higher the pigment levels.

Not all alleles have complete penetrance, as shown in the abovementioned
example. Some alleles have incomplete penetrance, meaning that even
though the individual has a certain genotype, this individual does not
show the phenotype. For example, if allele *A* has incomplete
penetrance, most people with genotype *AA* will have dark hair; however,
some people having exactly the same genotype as *AA* have lighter hair.

Let’s consider an example of breast cancer. *BRCA1/2* are highly
associated with breast cancer. Many people carrying the mutation in
their *BRCA1/2* ended up developing breast cancer; however, not all of
them developed breast cancer. A number of people are positive for
*BRCA1/2* mutation and do not develop breast cancer. This is because
*BRCA1/2* have an incomplete penetrance. The penetrance level can be
difficult to determine because it can be modified by many factors such
as age, environmental factors, other genes (polygenic), and epigenetic
regulation.

[Next (Pedigree) ⇒](/wiki/Pedigree_MG "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/Medical_Genetics_case "wikilink")

