### Separation

Terpenoids can be extracted from plant material by solvent extraction;
an organic solvent such as chloroform should be used due to the
non-polar nature of terpenoids. The dissolved molecules can be purified
further with simple techniques such as liquid-liquid partitioning with a
polar solvent such as water. The dissolved molecules can then be
separated by Liquid Chromatography (LC) using a silica gel column. Thus,
polar molecules interact with the silica beads, which leads to a
prolonged retention time. Apolar molecules, similar to terpenoids, move
faster through the column. By optimizing solvent strength, mobile phase
composition, pH, gradient and temperature the different molecules elute
at different retention times and can be separated.

### Characterization

Each purified component can then be characterized by mass spectrometry
(MS). The mass spectrometer accelerates the molecules and ionizes them
to produce charged molecular fragments. The accelerated ions are
separated according to their mass-to-charge ratio by a strong magnetic
field in the mass spectrometer. Each molecule breaks into different
fragments depending on the chemical structure of the molecule.
Therefore, each component produces a mass spectrum with a unique
fragmentation pattern. This molecular fingerprint can be compared to a
database and the component can be identified.

[ ⇐ Terpenoid Biosynthesis](/wiki/Terpenoid_Biosynthesis "wikilink")/[ Malaria
⇒ ](/wiki/Malaria "wikilink")\
[ ⇐ Theory Overview](/wiki/PlantLab "wikilink")

