![*Physcomitrella patens* in agar
plate]( Physcomitrella_growing_on_agar_plates.jpg "fig:Physcomitrella patens in agar plate")\
===*Physcomitrella patens*=== *Physcomitrella* is a member of the
bryophytes that has been used increasingly as a model organism. The
mosses are non-vascular plants with a main haploid phase. Bryophytes
include various mosses and liverworts that grow in moist and shaded
areas. The genome of *P. patens* was sequenced in 2006 and now serves as
model organism for plant evolution, physiology, development and genomic
studies. *P. patens* can be maintained in large continuous protonema
cultures with a stable genetic background. Mechanical forces
continuously splitting the tissue into smaller pieces can maintain the
protonemal stage . In addition, *P. patens* has proven to be very
tolerant towards a number of abiotic stresses; it can also grow in a
minimal medium, containing only minerals and water.

![Insertion of DNA fragment flanked by homologous
sequences]( Homologousrecombination.jpg "Insertion of DNA fragment flanked by homologous sequences")

### Homologous recombination

*Physcomitrella patens* is the only known land plant that can be
efficiently transformed by homologous recombination. Homologous
recombination allows for the insertion of a DNA fragment into a certain
gnomic location. This is achieved by flanking the transgene with two DNA
sequences that are homologous to a certain genomic locus. When the
cognate sequences bind, the endogenous DNA repair complex integrates the
DNA fragment into the moss genome. Thereby, inserting a marker gene into
an exon can result in efficiently knocking out specific genes. There are
also reports of chimeric proteins being produced by inserting an
alternative coding sequence into a gene. *P. patens* transgene
integration into the cognate sequence occurs at frequencies of up to
100% in flowering plants, however only a fraction of the biological
replicas are transformed correctly by homologous recombination.

### Vector construction

Transformation vectors contain the same basic elements as expression
vectors. The transgene, cloned from another organism, is the main
component of the vector. A vector can contain several transgenes but the
longer the construct gets, the lower the efficiency for transformation.
Gene expression depends on the promoter sequence upstream from the
transgene. The CaMV 35S promoter is commonly used for plant
transformations. It is a very strong, constitutive promoter from the
cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV), hence the gene downstream is highly
expressed in all tissues. To stop transcription, a terminator sequence
is cloned to the end of the transgene. Another essential component of
the transformation vector is a marker gene, which allows us to select
the transformed cells. Often antibiotic resistance genes are used for
efficient selection of transformed cells on growth media containing
antibiotics. If an organism is transformed with several constructs, each
vector needs to encode for a different selectable marker gene, otherwise
cells that were transformed with only one vector cannot be
differentiated from those with both constructs. For homologous
recombination, the entire vector needs to be flanked with homology
regions; this means that the homology regions are complementary to
either a sequence within a gene that needs to be knocked out or an
intragenic region of the host genome.

### PEG-Mediated Transformation

Naturally cells avoid the uptake of foreign DNA such as viruses,
therefore we need to overcome the cells protection shields. An enzyme
cocktail that degrades the long polysaccharides, which make up the cell
walls, can remove and breakdown the cell walls. The resulting naked
cells are called protoplasts. Like mammalian cells they are enclosed by
the plasma membrane. Polyethylene- glycol (PEG) is an organic polymer,
which binds to DNA and makes the membrane permeable for the complex.
Thereby, the vector can infiltrate the cells. The protoplasts are mixed
with the DNA and PEG; then the DNA can enter the nucleus and a fraction
of the cells are transformed by the construct. W5 solution is added to
remove the PEG after the incubation. The W5 solution contains CaCl2,
glucose, KCL , MES and NaCl which all retain PEG in the solution.
Therefore, the PEG can be easily separated out from the protoplasts by
centrifugation.

The cells must be grown on selective media in order to choose only the
successfully transformed cells with the resistance marker. This is
because cell transformation only occurs at low frequencies.

![Moss bioreactor]( Moss bioreactor.jpg "Moss bioreactor")

### Moss bioreactor

Metabolic engineering in microorganisms is limited because P450's are
not functionally expressed often in yeast or bacteria. *Physcomitrella*
protonema cultures are the ideal solution because they can be grown in
fermenters like microorganisms but also, the moss cells offer the right
environment for the complex proteins necessary in the production of
secondary metabolites. Thus, we can preserve rare plant species by using
transgenic plants, i.e. the secondary metabolites can be produced in
large quantities without extracting the components from rare plants.

[ ⇐ Phylogenetics](Phylogenetics "wikilink")/ [ Lab Biosafety
⇒](Lab Biosafety "wikilink")\
[ ⇐ Theory Overview](PlantLab "wikilink")

