![A closed oven where the column can be stored in a temperature-controlled environment.]( Oven regulator.png "A closed oven where the column can be stored in a temperature-controlled environment.")

Temperature is an important factor when separating compounds using HPLC.
The column can be placed inside a closed oven where the temperature can
be regulated.

Thermodynamics in HPLC
----------------------

The retention of a solute in a chromatographic system is determined
firstly, by the magnitude of the distribution coefficient of the solute
between the two phases and secondly, by the amount of stationary phase
available to the solute for interaction. The important point is that the
equilibrium constant is a thermodynamic quantity. Therefore, the
following relation from thermodynamics applies:

![]( DeltaG.png " DeltaG.png")

Where ∆G is the standard free energy of adsorption to the stationary
phase, ∆H is the standard enthalpy of adsorption to the stationary
phase, ∆S is the standard entropy of adsorption to the stationary phase
and T is the temperature in the system.

![]( ln(K).png " ln(K).png")

Where K is the equilibrium constant for the distribution between the
mobile and stationary phase, R is the the gas constant and ln the
natural logarithm, and *k*' is the capacity factor. As seen by the
equation above, the Gibbs free energy (∆G) can be correlated to capacity
factor (k'). By expanding the Gibbs free energy equation, we can measure
the effect of temperature change to the capacity factor.

Benefits of running in higher temperature
-----------------------------------------

There are several benefits of running the compounds separation in higher
temperature. Besides decreasing the run times, an increase in
temperature can have other beneficial effects. As the temperature
increases, the viscosity of the mobile phase will decrease, resulting in
lower pressures. Lower mobile-phase viscosity also improves diffusion in
the chromatographic system, giving narrower peaks. Simultaneously,
shorter retention times will generate narrower peaks. Narrower peaks
mean taller peaks, assuming the same mass of sample on the column, and
thus lower detection limits. And if you are happy to work at the
original pressure, you can further reduce the run time by increasing the
flow rate with isocratic separations until the original pressure is
reached.

Increasing the temperature also increases the compound solubility. When
a compound has a low solubility, they may precipitate and clog the
column. This can be avoided by increasing the temperature. However one
must also take into consideration that compound stability depends on the
temperature, especially biological compounds. When the temperature is
too high, these compounds may degrade and you will not be able to get a
good separation and measurement.

So in many cases, an increase in temperature can have multiple benefits
– if adverse selectivity changes are not encountered.

[⇐ Previous (Column)](/wiki/Column "wikilink") / [Next (Detector)
⇒](/wiki/Detector "wikilink")

[⇐ Theory overview](/wiki/HPLC "wikilink")

