![Phylogenetic tree of terpenoid synthase (Bohlmann, 1998.
<doi:10.1073/pnas.95.8.4126>)](/wiki/phylogenetic tree.gif "fig:Phylogenetic tree of terpenoid synthase (Bohlmann, 1998. doi:10.1073/pnas.95.8.4126)")
Phylogenetics is the study of evolutionary relationship between
biological entities. It can be used to determine the eevolutionary
distance of two DNA sequences as well as for whole organisms.
Phylogenetic analysis is based on the comparison of conserved hereditary
sequences. In our case we want to study the phylogenetic relationship of
different enzymes. In the case of proteins one could align the amino
acid sequence as well as the underlying nucleotide coding sequence.
However the functionality of a protein is better reflected in the amino
acid sequence. A point mutation in the DNA sequence does not necessarily
lead to a change in the peptide chain because several different codons
are translated into the same amino acid. Conversely a one nucleotide
insertion might look like a minor change on the DNA level, on the
protein level however it shifts the whole codon pattern and therefore
the sequence is translated into a completely different amino acid
sequence. Therefore the amino acid sequences of the different proteins
are compared with each other. The seqences are aligned such that they
reach the maximum similarity. The amino acid replacements are then rated
according to their likelihood. For example a Gly-Ala change is more
likely than a Gly-Pro change which would alter the 3D structure of the
protein. Thereby we can derive the degree of homology. These
evolutionary distances are usually depicted as a phylogenetic tree. To
validate the result, the analysis is repeated several times and the
resulting trees are superimposed on each other (bootstrapping), showing
only the one which is most likely. Each node gets a value assigned based
on the proportion of bootstrap trees showing that same clade. Nodes with
a value \>70% are considered as consistent.\
The resulting phylogenetic gives insights on the taxonomy of the
different species. In the case of proteins the close homologs are
usually responsible for similar functions. By including proteins with
known functions into the phylogenetic analysis one can derive the role
of other enzymes with a high degree of homology.

[⇐ BLAST](/wiki/BLAST "wikilink")/ [ Moss Transformation
⇒](/wiki/Moss_Transformation "wikilink")\
[ ⇐ Theory Overview](/wiki/PlantLab "wikilink")

