![Phylogenetic tree of terpenoid synthase (Bohlmann, 1998.  <doi:10.1073/pnas.95.8.4126>)](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/phylogenetic tree.gif "Phylogenetic tree of terpenoid synthase (Bohlmann, 1998. doi:10.1073/pnas.95.8.4126)")

### Basic principle

Phylogenetics is the study of the evolutionary relationship between
biological entities. It can be used to determine the evolutionary
distance of DNA sequences or entire organisms. Phylogenetic analysis is
based on the comparison of conserved hereditary sequences.\

### Phylogenetic analysis of Enzymes

In this lab we want to study the phylogenetic relationship of different
enzymes. We can align the amino acid sequence as well as the underlying
nucleotide coding sequence. The functionality of a protein is reflected
in its amino acid sequence; therefore the nucleotide sequence is usually
converted into the amino acid sequence analogous to the translation. A
point mutation in the DNA sequence does not necessarily lead to a change
in the peptide chain because several different codons can be translated
into the same amino acid. Conversely, a single nucleotide insertion
might appear as a minor change on the DNA level, however, on the protein
level, the nucleotide insertion can cause a shift in the whole codon
pattern and therefore the sequence will be translated into a completely
different amino acid sequence. Thus the amino acid sequences of the
different proteins are compared with each other.\

### Alignment Scoring

The sequences are aligned such that they reach the maximum similarity.
The amino acid replacements are then rated according to their
likelihood. For example a Gly-Ala change is more likely than a Gly-Pro
change, which would alter the 3D structure of the protein. Thereby we
can derive the degree of homology. These evolutionary distances are
usually depicted as a phylogenetic tree. To validate the result, the
analysis is repeated several times and the resulting trees are
superimposed on each other (bootstrapping), showing only the
phylogenetic tree that is the most likely. Each node is assigned a value
based on the proportion of bootstrapped trees showing that same clade.
Nodes with a value greater than 70% are considered as consistent.\
The resulting phylogenetic tree provides insights on the taxonomy of the
different species. In the case of proteins, the close homologs are
usually responsible for similar functions. When well-studied proteins
are included in the phylogenetic analysis, one can derive the biological
function of closely related enzymes.

[⇐ BLAST](/wiki/BLAST "wikilink")/ [ Moss Transformation ⇒](/wiki/Moss_Transformation "wikilink")\
[ ⇐ Theory Overview](/wiki/PlantLab "wikilink")

