![Plant secondary metabolite biosynthesis](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/PlantSecondaryMetabolite.jpg "fig:Plant secondary metabolite biosynthesis")
In addition to primary metabolites, which are essential for plant
growth, plants also produce various secondary metabolites, which are
important for the plants’ adjustment to its environment. Primary
metabolites include amino acids, nucleotides, sugars and lipids.
Secondary metabolites are very diverse and are often unique to a few
closely related species. Depending on the precursor derived from the
primary metabolism, secondary metabolites are divided into three
groups:\
• Terpenes and Terpenoids\
• Phenolic and polyphenolic compounds\
• Nitrogen/sulphur containing compounds\
 Secondary metabolites fulfill many different functions such as
protection from herbivores, microbial pathogens, or attractants for
pollinators. Humans use many secondary metabolites as industrial
materials, flavors, coloring, poisons and medicinal drugs.\

![*Artemisia annua* produce an antimalarial sesquiterpene lactone known as artemisinin.](https://s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/labster/wiki/media/artemisinin annua.jpg "Artemisia annua produce an antimalarial sesquiterpene lactone known as artemisinin.")

### Terpenes and Terpenoids

Terpenoids, or isoprenoids, are the largest group of natural compounds
in living organisms. Terpenoids contain functional groups that are
attached to a highly non-polar terpene backbone. Therefore, terpenoids
are mostly insoluble in water. Many terpenoids are biologically active
and protect the plant from parasites. Hence, they are promising
candidates for novel pharmaceuticals. Plant terpenoids often have a
strong scent and are extensively used for aromatic purposes. Well-known
terpenoids include menthol, cannabinoids, citral, and the curcuminoids
found in turmeric and mustard seeds. Terpenoids contribute to the scent
of eucalyptus, the flavors of cinnamon, cloves and ginger, and the
yellow color in sunflowers and the red color in tomatoes.

Artemisinin, produced by *Artemisia annua*, is a sesquiterpenoid
antimalarial therapeutic. When a malaria parasite invades a red blood
cell and digests the hemoglobin it causes oxidative stress. This
initiates a chemical reaction of arthemisinin. The resulting molecule
becomes highly reactive and perturbs the redox homeostasis in the
parasite. The precise mechanism of action, however, is still uncertain.

### Phenolics

Phenolic compounds contain a phenol group. One of the largest classes of
phenolic compounds are the flavonoids. The yellow pigmentation of citrus
fruits, for example, is derived from flavonoids. They are also abundant
in berries, dark chocolate and red wine. Flavonoids have important
anti-inflammatory, anti-allergic and anti-cancer capabilities due to its
powerful antioxidant properties.

### Nitrogen-Containing Compounds

Nitrogen-containing compounds are diverse plant secondary metabolites
that contain nitrogen in their structure. This class includes alkaloids
and cyanogenic glycosides which are famous for their toxicity and
medicinal properties. Alkaloids act as defense molecules against
herbivores, especially mammals, while cyanogenic glycosides are known
for their ability to release volatile poisonous hydrogen cyanide (HCN).

[ ⇐ Plant Taxonomy](/wiki/Plant_Taxonomy "wikilink")/ [ Terpenoid Biosynthesis
⇒](/wiki/Terpenoid_Biosynthesis "wikilink")\
[ ⇐ Theory Overview](/wiki/PlantLab "wikilink")

