![Plant Taxonomy](/wiki/plant taxonomy.jpg "Plant Taxonomy")

### Plant Taxonomy

Common names are easier to remember but are often not precise enough for
science. For example, a common name can refer to various plant species
or one plant species can have various common names. This is why
scientific names in Latin are useful and important to distinguish
between species. The Latin names consist of the capitalized genus name
followed by the species name.\
\
The plant kingdom or Plantae is a domain of the eukaryotes. Plant taxa
were traditionally classified according to the phenotypic traits. The
emergence of DNA sequencing technologies have allowed several taxa to be
relocated within the phylogenetic tree.\
\
Land plants are subdivided into two groups: vascular and non-vascular
plants. The Bryophyta (mosses) is a familiar division of non-vascular
plants. Vascular plants comprise several divisions including
Pteridophyta (ferns), Magnoliphyta (flowering plants) and Pinophyta
(conifers). Traditionally seeded plants are subdivided into Gymnosperms
and Angiosperms. The latter is the most diverse group of land plants and
encompasses all flowering plants.\

-   Gymnospermae (gymnos: naked, sperma: seeds) are plants with exposed
    ovules before and after fertilization. The largest group of
    Gymnosperms are the Pinophyta, which include pine, fir and redwood.\
-   Angiospermae (from the Greek word for “vessel seed”): The major
    characteristic of Angiosperms is the flower, which acts as the
    reproductive organ of the plant. Angiospermae seeds are enclosed by
    the fruit. The angiospermeae is a very diverse group; it encompasses
    the tiny duckweed as well as the mighty banyan trees. Almost all of
    the economically important crops belong to this group.\

### Plant Speciation

Speciation is the evolutionary process by which new biological species
arise. A species is a group of individuals whose members have the
potential to produce a fertile offspring with a member of the same
species but not with members of other species.

[ ⇐ Theory Overview](/wiki/PlantLab "wikilink")/ [Plant Secondary Metabolites
⇒](/wiki/Plant_Secondary_Metabolites "wikilink")

