### Enzyme Kinetics case - BB523: Farmaceutisk toksikologi A

Welcome to Labster's Enzyme Kinetics case!

You will see a demonstration of how to use this case during the lecture
on Wednesday, 17th of April at 8-10am (in U20). You have the opportunity
of working with the case directly after the lecture and a representative
from Labster will be there to answer any questions that you have.

You will need to complete the case before the seminar session in the
following week (starting from Monday, 22nd of April).

Please read the instructions on how to use the case below.

Good luck!

### How to use the case

-   Install Unity 3D player

You will need to install Unity 3D player in order to be able to use the
case. When you go to the case website, it will automatically prompt you
to install Unity 3D player if you do not have one installed yet. Just
follow the instructions, it takes about 1 minute to install Unity 3D
player on your computer. Once installed, you will be able to load the
case. Otherwise click on the reload button to reload the website again.

-   Disable pop-up blocker

If you have a pop-up blocker activated, please disable it. When you
click on the view theory button or when you need to download the data, a
new window will pop up. If you have a pop-up blocker activated, the new
window will not be able to pop-up.

-   Use a computer

Currently the Enzyme Kinetics case cannot be used in iPad, please use a
computer to run this case.

-   Excel or other calculating program

You also need to have Excel or other calculating program as you will
perform data analysis in the Enzyme Kinetics case.

-   Questionnaire and feedback survey

You will be asked to answer a set of 15 questions that will be used to
analyze your learning after completing the case.

You need to answer these questions before starting the case
(pre-questionnaire), after completing the case (post-questionnaire) and
after the seminar session (final-questionnaire). Please spend around
10-15 minutes to answer these questions, if you do not know the answer,
please make an educated guess. This questionnaire is anonymous and does
not contribute to your grade in this course.

We would like you to fill in a feedback survey after completing the case
to share your experience with us. Your feedback is very valuable for us
to make the case even better in the future. This survey is anonymous.

### Wiki theory page

You can always read the related theory that are compiled in wiki pages.
You can access them by clicking the "View Theory" button on the case or
by [Click here](http://learn.labster.com/index.php/Enzyme_Kinetics).

### Start Enzyme Kinetics case

Please click on the link below to start the questionnaire
(pre-questionnaire). Once you have completed the questionnaire, you will
be directed immediately to the case website. And once you have completed
the case, you will be directed immediately to the questionnaire again
(post-questionnaire).

[Click here](https://www.surveymonkey.com/s/SDU_EK_Pre) to start the
pre-questionnaire and [Click
here](http://www.labster.com/enzymekinetics_SDU/) to go directly to the
case.

### Contact me

If you have any questions, feedback, comments or anything, please don't
hesitate to contact me.

Tamara Tjitrowirjo

<tamara@labster.com>

+45 61 43 72 44

[www.labster.com](http://www.labster.com)

