![The biosyhthesis of terpene](/wiki/terpene biosynthesis.jpg "The biosyhthesis of terpene")

### Biosynthetic pathway

Terpenoids are enzymatically synthesized from acetyl-CoA and pyruvate
that are abundant in plastids and the cytoplasm. Formation of terpenoids
takes place in peroxisomes. Plant terpenoids have diverse functions in
membrane structure (sterols), photosynthesis (carotenoids), redox
chemistry (quinones) and growth regulators (gibberellins, abscisic
acids, brassinosteroids). Many terpenoids are economically valuable
flavoring agents, perfumes, insecticides, anti-microbial agents, raw
material for vitamins and drugs. Terpenoids contribute to the scent of
eucalyptus, the flavors of cinnamon, cloves and ginger, the yellow color
of sunflowers and the red color in tomatoes\
 Even though terpenoids have a huge variety of structural and chemical
properties, their terpene backbone is synthesized from only two
five-carbon isomers. Those isomers are isopentenyl diphosphate (IPP) and
dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP).

Terpene synthases are the primary enzymes responsible for catalyzing the
formation of hemiterpenes (C~5~), monoterpenes (C~10~), sesquiterpenes
(C~15~), or diterpenes (C~20~) from their substrates.\
 Volatile terpens are usually direct products of the terpene synthase
without additional oxidation, dehydrogenation, acylation or other
reactions.

Cytochrome P450 catalyzes the oxidation of organic molecules such as
terpenes. The monooxygenease reaction catalyzed by P450 inserts one
oxygen into the aliphatic position of an organic substrate (RH) while
the other oxygen atom is reduced to water.\

### Terpenoid Extraction

Plant secondary metabolite such as terpenoid can be extracted using
Supercritical Fluid Extraction (SFE) method. In SFE, plant tissue are
mixed with supercritical fluids/solvent to form a mobile phase. The
process begins with CO~2~ in gas form, which is compressed into the
liquid phase before becoming supercritical. CO~2~ in supercritical form
can diffuse in plant tissues easily and dissolve secondary metabolites.
Then the extracted material is separated from CO~2~ by boiling it off at
lower pressures. The used CO~2~ can then be cooled, re-compressed and
recycled, or discharged to the atmosphere. Therefore usage or toxic
chemicals can be avoided.\
 ![Diagram of Supercritical Fluid Extraction Plant]( SFE.jpg "fig:Diagram of Supercritical Fluid Extraction Plant")

### Terpenoid Evolution

Plant hemiterpene, monoterpene, sesquiterpene and diterpenes synthase
are evolutionarily related to each other and are structurally distinct
from triterpene or tetraterpene synthase. Metabolic engineering of the
terpenoid pathway is a constantly improving tool, used for the
fundamental study of terpenoid biosynthesis.

[ ⇐ Plant Secondary Metabolites](/wiki/Plant_Secondary_Metabolites "wikilink")/[ Killer Assay ⇒ ](/wiki/Killer_Assay "wikilink")\ [ ⇐ Theory Overview](/wiki/PlantLab "wikilink")

