Transformation is an important technique used to insert exogenous DNA to
a host cell. One of the many techniques to transform cell is
electroporation, which is a mechanical transformation method that
utilizes electrical pulse to create temporary pores in the cell membrane
so that DNA molecule can pass the cell membrane and enter the cell. The
high voltage of electricity causes hydrophobic pores to form at cell
membrane with of approximately 2 nm.

![Transformation
process](transformation.jpg "fig:Transformation process")\

Parameter of electroporation
----------------------------

-   '''Voltage\
     '''

The electrical condition for electroporation for each microorganism
varies. For example, yeast, such as *Saccharomyces cerevisiae*, has an
optimal electrical condition of 40μL cell, 1.5 kV for approximately 5
ms.\

-   **Cell**\

Electro-competent cells are used to increase the electroporation
efficiency. Competence means the ability of a cell to take up
extracellular ("naked") DNA from its environment. Yeast cells are made
electrocompetent by washing it in non-ionic solution to remove all salts
ensuring that the charge is not conducted through the medium. The
optimal electroporation for yeast is achieved when using yeast from mid
or late-logarithmic phase. The yeast logarithmic phase can be divided
into three parts:

-   Early-log phase: the period when cell densities are about \<10^7^
    cells/mL.
-   Mid-log phase: the cultures have densities between 1 and 5 × 10^7^
    cells/mL.
-   Late-log phase: occurs when cell densities are between 5 × 10^7^ and
    2 × 10^8^ cells/mL.

At logarithmic phase, the growth rate is rapid, and the rate of cell
division exceeds the rate of cell death. Cells are metabolically active
and carry sufficient genome replication to conduct efficient DNA repair.
Thus, cell at this phase can tolerate harsh treatment such as
electroporation.

-   **DNA\
    **

The frequency of transformation is increased with increasing DNA
concentration in the electroporation buffer. But please note that too
much DNA concentration can also lower the transformation efficiency. The
exact DNA concentration must be determined for each experiment.

-   **Electroporation Media\
    **

To avoid sample arcing during electroporation, it is important to wash
the electrocompetent cell thoroughly to remove the growth media from the
cell. Washing can be performed with water or with non-ionic solution
such as glucose, glycerol, sucrose, sorbitol, or polyethylene glycol.
The presence of ionic material may cause arcing during electroporation.

Sorbitol is preferably used because it act as non-permeating
cryoprotectant that significantly reduces the cell membrane damage
during thawing. Damage in the membrane significantly reduces the
transformation efficiency.

During the electroporation procedure, the temperature increases and the
cells experience membrane injuries caused by rapid water influx and
efflux due to extracellular and intracellular large osmotic
non-equilibrium. This type of injury can be prevented by osmotic
stabilizer such as sorbitol. Thus, sorbitol act as a cryoprotectant and
osmoregulator.

Spread
------

Spread refers to a method of distributing bacteria evenly over the
surface of an agar plate media. A small volume of microbial culture is
spread evenly over the agar surface using a glass spreader.\
Spread procedure:

-   A glass spreader should be sterilized using heat of the Bunsen
    burner flame. First, dip the glass spreader in alcohol (70%
    ethanol), shake off the excess alcohol, and ignite the residue.
    Then, allow the spreader to cool.\
-   Spread the microbial culture evenly on the surface of media plate.
    Pressure is applied evenly as the glass spread along the media
    surface.\
-   Allow the microbial culture to be absorbed by the media plate.\
-   Incubate the plate up-side down to avoid water droplets
    (condensation) on the plate.\

It is important to pick a single colony to isolate pure genetic clones.
A colony is a group of cells that originated from the same source;
therefore, all the cells in a single colony contain identical genetic
information.

Antibiotic selection
--------------------

The media used in molecular cloning is a rich media that promotes
microbial growth. Selective media can be used to avoid confusion in
selecting between transformed colonies and non-transformed colonies. A
selective media is prepared by adding antibiotics such as ampicillin,
hygromycin, zeocin-bleomycin derivative, and kanamycin. The antibiotic
used must match with antibiotic resistance gene encoded in a plasmid
vector, i.e., if a plasmid vector contains β-lactamase gene (ampicillin
resistance gene), then ampicillin must be used as the selective agent.

Microbes that have been transformed will contain the particular
antibiotic resistance gene encoded in the plasmid vector. Antibiotic
resistance gene allows the transformed colonies to be selected out of
non-transformed colonies. Because transformed colonies express certain
proteins needed to resist the antibiotic effect, they can survive in the
media containing antibiotic where the non-transformed colonies cannot.

The effectiveness of a particular antibiotic resistance system is
effected by:

-   **The selective agent (antibiotic)**.\

It should completely inhibit the nontransformed growth.

-   **The resistance gene**.\

It should express the protein needed to fully resist the selective agent
effect. The resistant gene expression level can be controlled by
transcriptional and translational control signals that are used to it.

-   **The material to be selected**.\

The material to be selected in this case is microbe cells. The microbe
cells should be sensitive to the antibiotic effect.

Ampicillin is commonly used for bacterial selection. However yeast is
not susceptible to ampicillin; hence, it cannot be used as a selective
agent for yeast transformation screening. One of many antibiotics that
can be used in yeast transformation screening is zeocin. Zeocin is part
of bleomycin/phleomycin-type antibiotics isolated from *Streptomyces*.
Zeocin causes cell death by binding and cleaving DNA inside the cell.
Zeocin resistance protein is encoded by Sh ble gene (Streptoalloteichus
hindustanus bleomycin gene). This protein will bind to zeocin in a
stoichiometric manner causing inhibition of the zeocin DNA strand
cleavage activity.

[⇐ Previous (Ligation)](Ligation "wikilink") / [Next (Reporter gene)
⇒](Reporter Gene "wikilink")\
[⇐ Theory overview](Molecular Cloning "wikilink")

