Introduction
------------

Throughout the materials on this page, you will get the possibility to
test out Labster's Crime Scene Investigation learning game (also known
as the CSI-case). However, to give a short idea what Labster's CSI-case
is all about, please take a quick view at the below video, before you
scroll down in this document.

Background information related to the CSI case
----------------------------------------------

Labster developed this CSI case in collaboration with The Technical
University of Denmark (DTU). The users of this case are entry level
undergraduate students studying biotechnology with most of them having
some biotechnology background knowledge.

In the CSI case, students need to utilize their scientific knowledge in
DNA profiling in order to run PCR (Polymerase Chain Reaction) and gel
electrophoresis and solve the case. By using Labster, students learn how
to work in a laboratory environment as well as learning how science can
be applied in real life situation.

Students start by reading the background theory and then continuing to
the virtual laboratory. They are also presented with quiz questions
throughout the laboratory. If they do not know the answer, students can
always click on the "view theory" button and go back to the Wiki page
discussing the related theory. The case ends once students have
completed the laboratory exercises, answered all the quiz questions and
convict the murderer.

Time for you to solve the CSI-case!
-----------------------------------

We have specially prepared some tools for you to be able to go through
our CSI case even if you do not have any biotechnology background. We
suggest you to go through the case in similar way to the students.
However we have extra materials for you if you get stuck.

**1. Read the theory in the Wiki pages**

Before starting the CSI case, we recommend to read the related theory.
This will provide you with sufficient knowledge to complete the case. If
you dont have time to this, jump to step 2

-   [Click here to view the theory](http://www.learn.labster.com/index.php?CSICase). The link will open in a new window/tab.

**2. If you get stuck during the lab?**

Should you get stuck at any step in the case, don't worry! We have
prepared detailed instructions including the correct answers for all the
quiz questions and a walk through video clip that you can find below. We
want everyone to be able to enjoy our CSI case!

-   [Click here to view the walk through.](http://www.learn.labster.com/index.php/Walk_through) The
    link will open in a new window/tab.

**3. Get started with Labster**

You are now well-prepared to experience Labster's CSI case!

-   [Click here to start Labster.](http://www.labster.com/csi/) The link
    will open in a new window/tab.

Additional material
-------------------

Storyboard for possible CCL case:

-   [Click here to view a proposal for a CCL case.](ftp://labster.com/Other/CCLcase.pdf) The link will open in a
    new window/tab.

